Artificial Intelligence:
	Abbreviations:
		VAE: 					Variational Autoencoder
		GAN: 					Generative Adversarial Network
	
		MCP: 					Model Context Protocol

	Description: 
	
	Resources: 
	
	Concepts:
		Narrow Artificial Intelligence: A class of AI technologies that is capable of performing a specific task, based on its Training Data and Input Parameters.
			Discriminative Artificial Intelligence: A class of AI technologies that is capable of distinguishing between different Categories in Data, based on their Training Data and Input Parameters.

		Generative Artifical Intelligence: A class of AI technologies that is capable of generating varius forms of content, such as Images, Audio and Text, based on their Training Data and Input Parameters.
			Variational Autoencoder: Learns how to convert real-world Input Data into a compressed form (i.e. Latent Space), and then back again to Data that looks real.
				Beta Variable Autoencoder: Introduces a Hyperparameter that controls the trade-off between the accuracy of Reconstructed Data versus understanding the underlying features of the Training Data for the resulting VAE Model.

				Conditional Variational Autoencoder: A variant of VAE that conditions the generative process on some extra labels / classes along with the usual Training Data, allowing it to produce samples that adhere to a specific class.

			Generative Adversarial Network: Features a Generator and a Discriminator Neural Network that compete with each other to ultimately improve the quality of the generated Data.
				Deep Convolutional GAN: Uses Convolutional Neural Networks for both the Generator and Discriminator, which allows it to generate high-quality Images.

				Style GAN: Uses a style-based Generator architecture that enables production of high quality realistic Images.

			Transformer Architecture: Allows a Model to dynamically focus on different parts of the Input Data (i.e. achieve a Self-Attention Mechanism).

			Autoregressive Model: Generates Data Points one at a time, conditioning each based on previous Data Points.

			Large Language Models:
				Parameter Count: A measure of the size of the LLM, which is the number of Weights and Biases in the Model. An LLM with larger numbers means the Model has greater capacity to store knowledge and reason about complex problems.

				Quantization: A Compression technique that reduces the precision of the Weights and Activations, reducing the Computational and Memory Requirements when running the Model.
					f16: Uncompressed, full 16-bit Floating Point values.
					q8_0
					q4_0

				Context Length: The maximum number of Tokens that the LLM can process at once, per prompt.
					Architectural: The number of Tokens that the LLM was built to process.
					Effective: The number of Tokens that the LLM can actually process, based on the current Resource Constraints.

				Context Window: Same as the Context Length, but leans more towards defining the Active Memory Space in the Model.

				Corpus: The initial body of Text.
				Token: A unit of Data (i.e. words, sub-words).
				Vector: Each Token is encoded as a Vector (i.e. Array of Numbers).
				Embedding: A specific type of Vector that captures Semantic meaning, mapping Tokens into a continuous Vector Space where Tokens with similar meanings sit closer to each other.
					Static Embedding: Embeddings generated from what was learnt by the Model during training (i.e. via a "static lookup table" for Embedding values). 

					Contextualized Embedding: Embeddings whose values shift based on the surrounding tokens in the Prompt, not just on what was learnt by the Model during training.

				Attention: A mathematical matchmaking technique that allows every Token in a sentence to calculate how relevant they are to every other Token, and update its meaning based on the current Context Window (i.e. converted into Contextual Embeddings).
					A Model has several internal Model Matrices based on Training Data.

					As part of initial Text Analysis, each Token's Vector is multiplied by 3 different internal Model Matrices, to determine the Query, Key and Value Vectors.
						Query: What information am I looking for?
						Key: What kind of information do I contain?
						Value: Actual Token Content.

					The Key and Value Vectors for a Token would not change for the exact same Inputs.
						They do change based on the position of the Token in the Input, due to Positional Encoding.

					The Model then multiplies the Query of each Token against the Key of every other Token in the Current Context Window to determine the respective Attention Weights that the current Token should give to all other Tokens.

					Finally, the Contextual Embedding for a Token is generated when the Model blends all the Value Vectors of relevant-enough Tokens together, as calculated by the Attention Weights.

					An Autoregressive Mechanism within the Model predicts one new Token based on all generated Contextual Embeddings. The Attention Mechanism then recalculates the Contextual Embeddings for the Input and this new Token, and then uses the Autoregressive Mechanism again to generate another new Token. 
						The Autoregressive and Attention Mechanisms run in a loop until the complete response is generated.

						Temperature: The amount of variance to use when determining the next Token to pick, based on the Attention Weights. Lower Temperatures induce more determinism and subsequently less creativity in the Response.
						Top-P Sampling: Instruct the Model to only look at the Tokens that make up the top 90% of the Attention Weight scale (i.e. ignore uncommon relationships, such as Banana -> Computer).

						KV Cache: Optimization Technique to cache the calculated Key & Value Vectors for already processed Tokens. Casual Masking ensures that only newer Tokens reference the information from older Tokens, not the other way around.

				Multi-Head Attention: Technique that gives the Model deeper understanding of the Context Window. Each Token's Vector is split into multiple smaller Vectors called Heads, so that the Key-Value Matchmaking can be computed across more than one dimension at the same time (i.e. Grammar, Pronoun Resolution, etc.). However, this requires more Internal Matrices for each additional dimension.
				Flash Attention: Instead of tracking the relationships of Tokens with every other Token in the Context Window, the Model breaks them into small Blocks which can fit into faster SRAM. Online Softmax Re-scaling assures that this chunking technique does not result in the loss of context across the entire Context Window.

		Agentic Artificial Intelligence: A class of AI technologies that is capable of autonomously performing tasks, making decisions and interacting with its environment, based on its Training Data and Input Parameters.
			Chain-of-Thought: A technique which encourages the Model to introspect and craft a step-by-step reasoning process to solve a given problem.

			Model Context Protocol: Model-Agnostic Open Standard introduced by Anthropic (now governed by the Linux Foundation) that lets any LLM / Agentic AI connect to any external Resource.

	Details:
		Generative Artificial Intelligence:
			Generative AI learns the underlying patterns, structures and distributions of the Training Data, which enables a Procedure in the Model to generate new Data that is similar to the Training Data in terms of statistical probability and characteristics.
				AIs "learn" the Probability Distribution of the Training Data, and then samples the Distribution to generate new but similar Data.

			Variational Autoencoder: The Encoder compresses the Input Data into a Latent Space, and the Decoder reconstructs the Data from the Latent Space.
				Analogy: Artist that not only just copies paintings, but learns the "essence" of the paintings. They are able to extract out the most significant underlying characteristics of a detailed painting (i.e. Encoding) and apply it to their output (i.e. Decoding).

				Beta Variational Autoencoder: Features a hyperparameter to help disentangle the VAE's Encoding and Decoding capability.
					Analogy: Art Student that not just copies a painting but also to understand and separate the key-elements such as color, shape and style.

				Conditional Variational Autoencoder: Able to generate new Data that is conditioned on a specific class or category, based on the Training Data and given Labels.
					Analogy: An Artist that can paint in different styles.

			Generative Adversarial Network: The Generator Neural Network generates new Data, and the Discriminator Neural Network evaluates the Data to determine if it is real or fake.
				The Generator and Discriminator are trained together antagonistically, with the aim of the Generator to fool the Discriminator into thinking the generated Data is real, and the Discriminator to correctly identify the generated Data as fake. Each will get better at their task over time.

				Wasserstein GAN: Uses a Wasserstein Distance Metric to improve the stability of the Training Process.
					Analogy: Gives the Generator and Discriminator a better way to communicate and evaluate each other's performance. Instead of just saying "Good" or "Bad", they say "Getting Warmer" or "Getting Colder".
	
			Autoregressive Model: Generates Data Points one at a time, conditioning each based on previous Data Points.
				Key Components:
					Self Attention Mechanism: Allows the Model to dynamically focus on different parts of the Input Data, depending on the context.
						Multi-Head Attention: An extension of Self-Attention that allows the Model to attend to different parts of the Input Data simultaneously, which enables the Model to capture a wider range of dependencies and relationships.
						
						Positional Encoding: Provides the Model with information about the position of each Data Point in the sequence, which is necessary for the Model to generate Data Points in the correct order, especially when processing them in Parallel for Multi-Head Attention.

					Feed-Forward Neural Network: Processes the Output of the Self Attention Mechanism to generate the next Data Point in the sequence.
					Layer Normalization: Normalizes the Output of the Self Attention Mechanism and Feed-Forward Neural Network to stabilize the Training Process.

				PixelCNN: Autoregressively generates images pixel by pixel, conditioning each pixel on the previous pixels in the image. Works well for generating images with fine details.
					PixelSNAIL: Refinement over PixelCNN that uses Self Attention Mechanism to capture long-range dependencies in the image.

				GPT: Generative Pre-trained Transformer: Model that predicts which words should come next.

				BERT: Bi-directional Encoder Representations from Transformers. Designed to understand the context from both directions of the text - it uses the Encoder part of the Transformer architecture. Typically used for tasks that require an understanding of the entire input sequence at once, rather than generating text autoregressively.

				Text-to-Text Transfer Transformer: Frames all NLP Tasks in a Text-to-Text format; it uses the full Transformer Architecture (both Encoding and Decoding).

			Large Language Models: Scaled-up Text-based Models.
				Autoregressive LLMs: LLM that generates text sequentially, based on the Autoregressive approach.

				Encoder-only LLMs: Model that specializes in Natural Language Understanding, which involve analyzing and comprehending input text without generating new text. They process the entire Input Text simultaneously, allowing them to help with tasks such as Text Classification, Named Entity Recognition and Sentiment Analysis.

				Encoder-Decoder LLMs: Model that not only understand the context of input Text (i.e. Natuiral Language Understanding) but also generate new text (i.e. Natural Language Generation). Suitable for tasks such as Language Translation, Summarization and Question-Answering.

				Multi-Model LLMs: Model that not only handles Text but also other mediums such as Image, Video and Audio.

				Instruction-tuned LLMs: A general LLM that has been fine-tuned using domain-specific Data. Suitable for Chatbots, Virtual Assistants, and even AI Agents when combined with other components.

				Domain-specific LLMs: An LLM that has been built on domain-specific Data from the ground up.

				Obtaining Context:
					Text Preprocessing Techniques:
						Text Normalization: Lower-case standardization, etc.
						Stop Word Removal: Exclude words that do not hold significant meaning (i.e. the).
						N-gram Extraction: Finding multi-term phrases.
						Stemming: Converting different forms of the same word to the same word by stripping the suffix (i.e. ending / ended -> end ).
						Lemmatization: Similar to Stemming, but uses actual linguistical rules to convert the words (i.e. global -> globe).
						Parts of Speech Tagging: Labelling each word with the grammatical category (i.e. noun, adjective, word).

					Text Analysis: Traditionally done using Statistical Models, Semantic Models have overtaken Statistical Models for common Text Analysis Tasks.
						Types:
							Text Summarization
							Text / Document Classification
							Keyword Extraction
							Named Entity Recognition

						Statistical Models:
							Frequency Counting: Counts the number of times each word appears. The most common words will typically express the meaning of the overall Corpus. Helps with Text Summarization.

							Term Frequency - Inverse Document Frequency: Weighs relevance of a Term, both within a Document, and across Documents. The more it appears within a single Document + less it appears across all Documents, the more significant the Term is. Helps to differentiate between multiple Documents in the same Corpus.

							Bag of Words - Feature (i.e. Machine Learning) Extraction Technique to represent Text Tokens as a Vector of Word Frequencies or Occurrences ignoring Grammar or Word Order. Helps with Document Classification.

							TextRank - Unsupervised Graph Algorithm that models Text / Sentences as a network of connected Nodes, with Edges representing similarity of contained Words. Nodes with high number of connected Edges are then extracted for the purposes of summarizing the overall Corpus.
								Extractive Summarization: No new Text is generated from the analysis.
								Abstractive Summarization: New Text is generated from the analysis, based on new Semantic modelling techniques.

						Semantic Models:
							Embedding: Represent Words as Vectors that capture the Semantic meaning of the Word within the Corpus, influenced by how the Model doing the Tokenization was trained.
								Cosine Similarity: Semantically similar pairs of Embeddings would tend to have high Cosine Similarity (i.e. (A . B) / (||A|| * ||B||)
								Vector Translation: Adding or subtracting Embeddings together can result in Vectors that match / closely resemble other Embeddings (e.g. dog + young == puppy).
									Analogical Reasoning: Translation can help find analogies (i.e. puppy is to dog as cat is to => dog - puppy + cat => kitten).

		Agentic Artificial Intelligence:
			Model Context Protocol:
				MCP Hosts: Agentic AI Developer Applications (i.e. Claude Code, Cursor, Google Antigravity)
					MCP Client: Within the MCP Host to manage communicatins to other MCP Servers. One Client connects to one Server.

				MCP Server: Serves context data for Agentic AIs to interact with other Resources (i.e. Databases, File Systems, APIs), implemented as a Server running alongside the Resource. One Server can support multiple Clients.

				Data Layer:	Defines the governing logic that decides what Messages are allowed, when they can be sent, and what they signify in the context of an AI session, implemented via JSON-RPC. Implicitly enforced by a State Machine; allowed sequences of Messages that should be sent between Client and Server during an interaction.
					Lifecycle Management: Handles Connection Initialization, Capability Negotiation and Flow Control throughout the Conversation, Error Semantics, and Connection Termination.

					Client Features: Allows Servers to sample the Host LLM or request User Input via the Client.
						Primitives: Defines what Clients can offer Servers.
							Sampling: Allows Servers to sample the Host LLM - useful when Server Authors want access to a Language Model without having to include their own LLM and stay Model-independent.
							Elicitation: Allows Servers to request User Input via the Client.
							Logging: Allows Servers to send Log Messages to the Client for debugging purposes.

					Server Features: Allows Servers to provide core functionality.
						Primitives: Defines what Servers can offer Clients.
							Tools: Executable Functions that can be called by AI Applications to perform actions (i.e. Database Queries, File System Operations, API Calls).
							Resources: Data Sources that provide Context Data for AI Applications (i.e. Database Records, Files, API Responses).
							Prompts: Reusable Templates that help structure interactions with Language Models in the Host (i.e. System Prompts, Few-Shot examples).

					Notifications: For when Servers want to notify Clients of Events (i.e. Resource Updates, Errors) without requiring the Client to respond / poll the Server.

				Transport Layer: Defines the communication mechanisms and channels that enable data exchange between Clients and Servers.
					STDIO: Standard Input / Output Streams for Hosts and Servers located in the same Machine, providing optimal performance with no additional Network bottleneck.
					Streamable HTTP: HTTP POST for Client-to-Server Messages, with optional Server-Sent Events for Streaming Capabilities. 

	Commands:
		Tools:
			Types:
				Ollama: Docker for Local LLMs.

				Roo -> Kilocode / Cline / Continue.dev: IDE Plugins that allows for the execution of Development Tasks on different LLMs, depending on the Task Complexity (i.e. Planning - Heavier / Acting - Lighter)
					Multi-Agent Approach for Agentic AI Development:
						Types:
							Orchestrator: Agent that coordinates the other Agents to breakdown larger Tasks further. The LLM used for this Agent must be able to communicate well to the other Agents.
							Architect: Agent that plans the Development Task (i.e. Qwen 2.5 Coder 32B at Q4; 22GB RAM)
							Coder: Agent that execute the Development Task (i.e. Llama 3.1 70B at Q4; 45GB RAM).
							Debug
							Ask
							Review: Agent that reviews the Development Task (i.e. Deepseek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B at Q4; 5GB RAM).

						Considerations:
							Prompt Scope: The Orchestrator should not be given everything at once, otherwise it might get overwhelmed. Get feedback from another capable LLM for a strategy that would be best for the Orchestrator. 
								Give the Orchestrator conclusions, not Research Tasks.

							Memory Bandwidth and Speed:
								Orchestrator uses one growing Context Window / KV Cache throughout a single User Task.
								Every other Agent uses a separate Context Window / KV Cache that refreshes per Sub-Task generated by the Orchestrator.

								In practice, these Models run sequentially, not in parallel, so each will get the full bandwidth.

							Context-Switching Overhead

				Cursor / Google Antigravity: Agentic IDE
					.cursorrules: Similar function to CLAUDE.md.

				Claude Code: Agentic CLI
					CLAUDE.md: Markdown File containing Instructions, Architectural Context, Coding Convention, and Rules that Claude Code reads before starting any Task.

		Effective Prompt Engineering: RICE-Q
			Role: Set the context by defining the role of the AI.
			Instruction: Provide the specific task or question you want the AI to complete.
			Context: Provide any relevant background information or data that the AI needs to know to complete the task.
			Examples: Provide examples of the desired output, so the AI can better understand what you are looking for.
			Question: Invite the AI to ask you questions if it needs more information to complete the task.

			Tip: Ask the AI to explain its reasoning, showing its thought-process step-by-step.
