Kubernetes:
	Abbreviations: 
	
	Description: A Platform for running many Containers on the Cloud.
	
	Resources: 
	
	Concepts: 
		Release: 				An instance of a Manifest running in a Kubernetes Cluster.

		Manifest: 				A YAML File that describes the desired state of a Resource.
		Resource: 				An Object that describes a desired state for the Release.

		Workload:
			Job:				Manages running a Pod to complete a finite task.
			Cronjob:			A scheduled Job.

			Containers:			An isolated environment in which a Runtime Executable can run in.
			Pods:				A runnable unit of work which can contain many Containers that support each other and are tightly coupled. Kubernetes will connect this Pod to the overall network, and the rest of the Kubernetes ecosystem.
				Liveness Probe	Indicates if the Pod is able to run. Restart the Pod if not true.
				Readiness Probe	Indicates if the Pod is able to serve Requests. Reroutes Requests from the Pod to other ready Pods while not true.
				Startup Probe	Delays Liveness and Readiness Probe Checks while Pod is starting up.

			Replication Controller: An older variant of the Replica Set.
			Replica Set:		Ensures a specified number of Pods (of the same type) are active.
			Deployment:			A higher-level abstraction over Replica Sets, supporting features such as Rolling Updates / Rollbacks.

		Service:				Represents the boundary between Workload Entities (i.e. Replica Sets, Pods, etc.) and Traffic Entities (i.e. Gateways, HTTPRoutes). Load-Balances the Request to a healthy Pod.

		Node: 					Any Physical or Virtual Machine that runs Pods. Can be run in a Cluster, possibly managed via Infrastructure Tools.

		Karpenter:				Workload compaction Service that optimizes Node usage across the Cluster. Pods on a Node Cluster gets destroyed and recreated when being "moved" across Nodes.

		Traffic:
			ReferenceGrant:		Explicitly permits a specific Resource in one Namespace to point to a Resource in another Namespace.
			HTTPRoute:			Defines how incoming HTTP Requests are routed to Services.
			Gateway:			An interface for exposing Applications on a Cluster through a Load Balancer, Proxy, or specific Port Mappings. It represents the actual Network Entry Point.
				GatewayClass:	Defines how Gateways should be provisioned.
				Certificate: 	Represents a TLS Certificate, securing the traffic entering the workload (i.e. between Gateway and Pods).

	Details:
		Components:
			Label: 				Name Tags to identify entities, or to define different attributes.
				Querying can be done on these Labels in a Kubernetes Environment.

			Node:				A Machine with a Container Runtime that can run Pods.

			Cluster: 			A group of Nodes with the same configuration.

			k8s Service: 		Tells the rest of the Kubernetes Environment, including other Pods and Replication Controllers, what Services does the Application provide.
					Defines a fixed Network Address for the Application so that other Applications can interact with the Application.

					Features:
						Persistent
						Load Balancing

			Volume: 			Persistent or Ephemeral Storage Backend where Applications can store information.
					From the perspective of the Application, it appears to be on the local filesystem.

					Types:
						Mounted
						Cloud

			Namespace: 			Segments a group of Pods, Replication Controllers, Volumes, and other secrets, from each other.
					A degree of isolation from each other.

		Other Tools:
			Helm: 				Package Manager for Kubernetes that simplifies the deployment and management of Application Images on Kubernetes Clusters.
			OpenShift:			Container Application Platform that extends Kubernetes to provide Enterprise-level Features and Security.
	
	Commands:
		kubectl
			# Namespace
				describe <namespace-name>

			# Gateway
				get gateways

			# Certificate
				get certificates

			# HTTPRoute
				get httproutes

			# ReferenceGrant
				get referencegrant

			# Service
				get services

			# Node
				get nodes

			# Deployment
				get deployments
				describe deployment <deployment-name>
				scale deployment <deployment-name> --replicas=<n>
				
				# Change variables in k8s Deployment Spec:
				edit deployment <deployment-name>

			# Replica-Set
				get replicasets
				describe replicaset <replicaset-name>

			# Pod
				get pods
				get jobs / cronjobs
					-o wide		# See Images used in the Pod / Job / Cronjob; or the Node it is scheduled to.
				
				exec -it <pod-id> -- /bin/bash # Execute /bin/bash in target Pod
				logs <pod-id>	# Examine Logs from target Pod
