Database Notes:
	Abbreviations:
		ACID:				Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability.

		DDL:				Data Definition Language.
		DML:				Data Manipulation Language.
		DCL:				Data Control Language.
		DQL:				Data Query Language.
		TCL:				Transactional Control Language.

		DBMS:				DataBase Management System.
		RDBMS:				Relational DataBase Management System.

		OLTP: 				OnLine Transaction Processing.
	
	Description:
		A Data Structure that focuses on the storage and retrival of Data on Disk.
	
	Tutorials:

	
	Concepts:
		Transaction:		A Unit of Work done / Measure of Change performed within a DBMS.
		ACID:				A set of desirable properties to apply to a Transaction when interacting with a Database.

		Index:				A sorted, sparse Data Structure that maps selected pieces of Data to storage locations on Disk, with the aim of improving lookup speed for Range Queries.
		
		DDL:				Linguistic Mechanism for Defining (Create or Modify) the Data *Structures* within a Database.
		DML:				Linguistic Mechanism for Manipulating (Modify, Delete, Insert and Update) Data within a Database.
		DCL:				Linguistic Mechanism for Controlling (Grant or Revoke) access to the Data within a Database.
		DQL: 				Linguistic Mechanism for Querying (Selecting) Data wihtin a Database.
		TCL:				Linguistic Mechanism for Managing (Commit or Rollback) Transactions for a Database.

		Coherence:			Synchronization of shared Data at multiple locations.

		OLTP:				An approach to quickly serve Transaction Oriented Implementations (i.e. Sales Systems, ATM).
	
	Details:
		ACID:
			Atomicity:		Transactions containing multiple Statements will either succeed as a whole, or not be processed at all.
			Consistency:	Transactions can only bring the Database from one valid State to another, respecting Constraints, Cascades and Triggers within affected Data.
			Isolation: 		Transactions executed concurrently will behave the same if the Transactions are executed sequentially.
			Durability:		Transactions that have been commited will remain commited, even during System Failure (Power Outage / Crash).

		OLTP:
			Databases that support OLTP are a type of RDBMS that can process straightforward Create, Read, Update and Delete Operations. 
				The Data is highly normalized for the sake of efficient Transaction processing.

			OLTP Applications have high throughput on Creating and Updating Data, and usually serves many Users at once.
