Cloud Computing:
	Abbreviations:
		IaaS:					Infrastructure as a Service
		PaaS:					Platform as a Service
		SaaS:					Software as a Service

		MLaaS:					Machine Learning as a Service
		DBaaS:					Database as a Service
		FaaS:					Functions as a Service

		BPaaS:					Business Processes as a Service
		CaaS:					Communication as a Service

		CapEx:					Capital Expenditure
		OpEx: 					Operating Expenditure
	
	Description: 				The delivery of Compute Resources and Services over the Internet to offer faster innovation, flexible resources and economies of scale.
	
	Concepts:
		Traditional Computing: 	On-Premise Computing. Consists of Computer Hardware, Operating System, and Applications.
		
		Pillars of Cloud Computing:
			Hardware Virtualization: Decoupling of a Logical Machine from a Physical Machine.
				Hypervisor:	Allows multiple OS-es to share the same Physical Machine.

			OS Virtualization: Decoupling of a Logical OS Environment from an actual OS.
				Container Runtime: Allows multiple Applications to run on the same OS without conflicts.

		Cloud Service Models:
			IaaS: Virtual Hardware that replaces On-Premise Compute Resources. Example: AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud.
				Compute:		Provides Computing Resources on demand.
				Block Storage: 	Provides Blocks for storing data.
				Network:		Provides Networking Capabilities.

			PaaS / Cloudware: Adds features to IaaS. Includes Operating Systems, Software Development Tools and Runtime Services. Example: RedHat Openshift.
				Object Storage:	Provides resources for how Objects are stored.
				Identity:		Provides a Layer for dealing with User Authentication.
				Runtime:		Provides a Runtime Environment for Applications to run on.
					Provisioning and Deployment Capabilities
					Load Balancing and Autoscaling
				
				Queue:			Used for Batch and Message Processing.

			SaaS: Software Licensing and Delivery Model. Applications are subscribed to on a monthly or yearly basis, and accessed over the Internet. Example: GitLab, Netflix.
		
		Shared Responsibility Model: Both the Cloud Provider and the Application are responsible for the integrity of the Application. IaaS puts more responsibility on the Consumer, whilst SaaS shifts the responsibility to the Cloud Provider. PaaS is a middle ground.

		Cloud Deployment Models:
			Public Cloud:		Built, controlled and maintained by a Third-Party Cloud Provider - anyone who wants to purchase Cloud Services and Resources can use them.
			Private Cloud:		Cloud reserved for use by a single Entity, typically hosted on an dedicated Datacenter for the Company, and managed by the Company's IT Department.
			Hybrid Cloud:		Combines Public and Private Cloud for certain use-cases (e.g. quick scaling via Public Cloud to meet a temporary surge in demand).

			Community Cloud:	Organizations with common interests.
			Multi-Cloud:		A Cloud which combines features from several Cloud Providers.
			Government Cloud:	A Cloud dedicated for Government usage with the highest Security Offerings.

	Details:
		Intro:
			Disadvantage of Traditional Computing: Pace of keeping up with innovation becomes overwhelming.
				High Costs of maintaining and acquiring Compute Resources.
					Every few years Computer Hardware, Operating System and Applications become obsolete, and requires upgrading.
		
			Advantage of Cloud Computing:
				Consumption-Based Model: OpEx - pay-as-you-use.
					No upfront costs (unless using Private Cloud)
						Reduced IT and Admin Staff costs.

					No wasted resources - pay as much as used, stop paying when not needed.

				Enterprise-level Data Protection.

		Benefits of Cloud Computing:
			Scalability
				Elasticity: Automatic Scalability
					Agility: Fast Allocation of Resources as Client's needs change.

				Horizontal Scaling: Adjustments to the Cluster's size.
					In-Scaling: Removing Nodes from the Cluster (i.e. "zooming in and seeing less").
					Out-Scaling: Adding Nodes to the Cluster (i.e. "zooming out and seeing more").

				Vertical Scaling: Configure the hardware for each Node.
					Down-Scaling: Replacing hardware with less powerful variants (i.e. going "downwards vertically").
					Up-Scaling: Adding more powerful hardware to a Node (i.e. going "upwards vertically").

			Reliability
				Availability
					Load Balancing

			Predictability:
				Performance Predictability: Focuses on predicting the Resources needed to deliver. Scalability (Auto-Scaling) and Availability contribute to this.

				Cost Predictability: Focuses on predicting or forecasting the cost spent on Cloud Resources.
					Pricing Calculator to gauge / estimate costs.
					Monitor Resources to ensure they are being used in the most efficient way.
					Utilize Data Analytics to find patterns and trends in demand to better plan for Resource Deployments.
		
			Security:
				Governance
					Software patches and updates can be automatically applied.

				Compliance
					Cloud Auditing aims to flag out any Resource that does not comply with Corporate Standards.

				Resiliancy against DoS Attacks.

			Manageability:
				Management of the Cloud: Encompasses aspects of the entire Cloud Environment.
					Optimizing Resource Allocation and Managing Costs
						Resource Pooling: All Resources provided by the Cloud Provider are seen as one large pool, to be divided amongst all Clients using them.

					Setting Security Standards
					Ensuring Compliance across the Cloud Environment

				Management in the Cloud: Focused on individual Applications or Processes running within the Cloud Environment.
					Applications can manage their Resources via:
						Via Web Portal
						Via CLI
						Via APIs

		Cloud Service Models:
			IaaS vs PaaS vs SaaS:
				SaaS: Fully complete Application / System.
				PaaS: "Parts" of a System that require no VM-specific configuration (i.e. no need log in to VM and configure things).
				IaaS: VM with no OS within / OS within but requires configuration (i.e. need to log in to VM and configure things).

		Shared Responsibility Model:
			Responsibility Share:
				Consumer:
					Securing and Maintaining its own Data.
					Controlling how the Cloud Provider's Resources are used.
					Accounts and Identities of the People, Devices and Services within your organization.
				
				Consumer / Cloud Provider: Depending on Service Model (i.e. IaaS / PaaS / SaaS)
					Operating System: IaaS; controlled by Consumer. PaaS & SaaS; controlled by Cloud Provider.
					Database / Storage Configuration: IaaS; controlled by Consumer. PaaS & SaaS; controlled by Cloud Provider.
					Network Configuration: IaaS; controlled by Consumer. PaaS; shared control between both. SaaS; controlled by Cloud Provider.
					Applications: IaaS; controlled by Consumer. PaaS; shared control between both. SaaS; controlled by Cloud Provider.
					Identity and Directory Infrastructure: IaaS; controlled by Consumer. PaaS & SaaS; shared control between both.

				Cloud Provider:
					Compute Resources
						Physical Storage
						Network Connectivity
						Physical Hosts
				
					Availability
						Regions
						Edge Locations

			Use-Case Examples:
				IaaS:
					Lift-and-Shift: From On-Prem to Cloud
					Testing and Development

				PaaS:
					Development Framework: Cloud Provider includes Software Components that Developers can use to leverage on Cloud Features such as Scalability and High Availability.
					Analytics or Business Intelligence: Cloud Provider includes Tools that would be useful for analysing Business Insights.

		Accessing Cloud Resources:
			Through a Web Browser and a Web Protocol, such as HTTPS
			RDP - Remote Desktop Protocol for connecting to Virtual Windows Instances
			SSH - RDP equivalent for connecting to Virtual Linux Instances
			VPN - A Private Connection over a Public Network
			Direct Connect - A Physical Connection to the Cloud Provider's Network
		

